Welcome, in this video, we're going to configure P4Merge to work with Git.
First thing, we just need to verify where P4Merge is actually installed. I'm going to open up file explorer;
and generally our programs load in "C", "Program Files". This is the Default location for 64 bit applications in a 64 bit version of Windows.
Going into that folder, we have a Perforce folder, which is the name of the company that makes P4Merge.
Going into that folder, I can see that I have a "p4merge" application. Double clicking it will launch P4Merge.
So we're going to cancel out of that. Now that we've confirmed the location, let's open up Git Bash.
We position Git Bash and the Windows file explorer in a way that I can see the path.
Using Git's config command, I'm going to configure Git to use P4Merge as the diff tool and as the merge resolution tool.
The first command: git; space; config; space; --global, because these settings need to be at the global, or user, level;
followed by the setting to use, which is "merge.tool"; space; and then the name of the tool that we want to give, which is "p4merge".
Double check the line, and then press enter. The second command, which tells git where to look for the P4merge tool,
starts off with: git; space; config; space; --global; space; mergetool (note, there is no dot in-between merge and tool);
.p4merge (which is the name of the tool that we just named in the prior command); .path; space; and then, in double quotes,
the full path to the p4merge executable, which is "C:/Program Files/Perforce/" and the executable name "p4merge.exe".
Note: the direction of the slashes uses the familiar Unix-style, as opposed to the back slash of the Windows-style.
When configuring within Git Bash, we need to use the forward slash instead of the back slash.
Great, double check this line and then press enter. The next command will tell Git to not to prompt whether or not to launch P4Merge
every time we need to resolve a conflict. To do that type "git config --global mergetool.prompt false".
Great. Now let's set up our difftool configuration. Like in the prior example, we're going to use a similar syntax, except use difftool.
So "git config --global diff.tool p4merge". Press enter. Again, in a similar fashion to our mergetool configuration,
"git config --global difftool", again, notice the lack of a dot between diff and tool, ".p4merge", the name of the tool we're configuring, ".path",
space, and then, in double quotes, the full path to the p4merge executable: like before, it's at "C:/Program Files/Perforce/p4merge.exe".
Double check that line, and then press enter. And the last configuration option for our difftool:
"git config --global difftool.prompt " and then the value "false".
Now, let's list out our configuration: "git config --global --list".
Great. Along with the other settings that we set up in the previous examples, we have our mergetool and difftool configurations set up.
And, in similar fashion, if I type "git config --global -e", that will invoke my default editor with the .gitconfig file.
And, with that, you can see that most of the configuration that is setup in the .gitconfig file is related to the difftool and the mergetool.
Alright, let's close that with control+w, and alt+f4. Now that we've finished that, we can exit out of Git Bash.